Story Recapped here.
Today I'm going to show you an action, adventure,
sci-fi film called “The Day After Tomorrow.”
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
At the United Nations global warming conference,
paleoclimatologist Jack Hall warns delegates
of an impending global icing event that, according
to their findings, could occur within the
next couple of centuries.
Continual excessive use of fossil fuels, Jack
warns, could lead to warmer climates, which,
in turn, could lead to a new ice age.
After the conference, Jack meets Terry Rapson
of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration,
and the two share findings on their respective
fields.
In Japan, a freak weather storm causes disruption
when huge blocks of hale rain on pedestrians.
Back at Terry’s monitoring station, some
men detect a sudden drop in temperature in
the ocean.
In the International Space Station, astronauts
note several massive storm systems forming
across the planet’s surface.
Terry then notes the sudden drop in temperature
and sees even more temperature drops being
recorded.
In New York, Jack’s son Sam arrives with
his friends, Laura and Brian, to join a decathlon
meet and notice a massive flock of birds all
flying westward.
Terry later calls Jack and tells him his predictions
were not only correct but are happening sooner.
Jack adds that an event similar to this hasn’t
happened in the last 10,000 years.
At a weather monitoring center in California,
a technician gets word that hale has started
raining on the beach.
He warns his colleague that they have to issue
a tornado warning in California.
Not long after that, gigantic whirling pillars
of air form and decimate downtown, Los Angeles.
This sudden weather phenomenon catches people
off-guard, and panic and destruction quickly
overcome the streets.
As soon as it arrived, the giant tornadoes
dissipate, leaving Los Angeles in tatters.
Back at the weather monitoring station, Jack
and his colleagues scramble to figure out
what has happened.
They find out that areas across the globe
are all experiencing the same destructive
weather occurrences.
Jack tells everyone that the mid-Atlantic
current could be the cause, and the weather
events won’t only continue but will worsen.
Jack then meets with the vice-president and
tries to warn him but gets a cold shoulder.
In Scotland, three military helicopters pass
through the eye of the weather system, and
their instruments start freezing.
Helicopter rotors freeze mid-spin, and the
three choppers crash.
A soldier survives and tries to flee but freezes
instantly the moment he opens the door.
In New York, Sam and his friends are stuck
with all flights canceled.
They try to use the subway, but the tunnels
are flooded.
With no warning, a supermassive tsunami appears
wreaking havoc through downtown Manhattan.
Jack and his friends flee to a library building
with countless other civilians lucky enough
to escape the storm surge.
Terry and Jack communicate and learn that
the freezing air that brought down the helicopters
is from the upper atmosphere.
Usually, this air would warm up as it descends,
but the weather systems are causing the air
to move down too fast, freezing everything
on the surface.
They also find out that their predictions
were off, and the storm will be coming in
a few days, not in a few weeks.
Jack shows the weather prediction, and three
massive weather systems are forming across
the globe, getting worse each day.
This storm, Jack predicts, will change the
planet.
Back in New York, Sam contacts his parents
through a submerging telephone line.
Jack tells him he must stay inside and wait
for the storm to pass as it’s only going
to get worse.
He advises him to gather as much food and
insulation as he can.
Jack then decides to head to New York to get
Sam.
Jack then briefs the heads of state of the
situation and tells them the worst is yet
to come.
He suggests evacuating everyone in the southern
states to Mexico.
The vice-president disapproves of this, asking
Jack what he urges the people in the north
do.
Jack answers that people in the north are
doomed to die if they set foot outside their
homes and advises they too must hold out and
stay inside until the storms pass.
The president decides to take Jack’s advice
and orders the national guard to evacuate
the remaining population to the south.
In New York, the refugees in the library spot
a crowd of people venturing into the frozen
icescape in hopes of reaching warmer states
before the snow gets deeper.
Sam tries his best to warn everyone, telling
them they won’t survive in the storm and
that they should all stay inside, but the
crowd still decides to leave.
Only Sam and a handful of people are left
in the library.
After a heartfelt phone call to his wife,
Jack sets off for Manhattan with two Frank
and Jason, his two colleagues and friends.
At the Mexican border, vast crowds of Americans
are trying to cross the border, even traversing
the Rio Grande.
Back at the library, Sam and his companions
raid vending machines for food and gather
books for burning in the fireplace.
Jack and his crew eventually run into a roadblock
and have to make the rest of the way on foot.
Being researchers stationed in the north pole,
Jack, Frank, and Jason are used to walking
long distances in the cold.
The men are trekking on top of a building
when Frank breaks the glass and falls in.
He gets caught by their lifeline but sees
that more of the roof is giving way.
Jack tries to pull him up as Jason holds the
weight, but Frank sees the glass cracking
and decides to cut the line to save his friends,
sacrificing himself.
In the library, Laura gets a fever and falls
unconscious.
The group tries to figure out what’s happening
to her and discovers that she’s potentially
suffering blood poisoning from a wound infection.
She needs an immediate injection of penicillin,
or else her injuries could lead to amputation
or death.
Sam decides to head out to a nearby cargo
ship that got washed in to look for medicine
and food.
Brian and another guy, J.D., decide to accompany
him.
At a military base, the vice-president finds
out the president has died.
Researchers also get word from the International
Space Station that the weather system affecting
North America has moved over to New York.
It would soon be pulling supercooled air from
the upper atmosphere to the surface, freezing
everything.
Jack and Jason make their way through New
York, but Jason collapses from exhaustion,
and Jack has to carry him.
In the library, the trio also heads out to
the grounded cargo ship, unknowingly putting
themselves in harm’s way when a hungry pack
of wolves catches their scent.
Sam, Brian, and J.D. make their way to the
ship’s mess hall, and Brian finds penicillin.
As they rummage through the kitchen, the wolves
come in and attack J.D. Brian and Sam fight
the wolves and save J.D. but get stranded
inside the mess hall.
With J.D.’s foot mangled, they must find
a way back to the library.
Sam sees the sky clearing up and deduces they’re
in the eye of the storm.
Sam then plans to make his way outside and
lure the wolves away from the mess hall.
He then runs through the ship, narrowly escaping
the wolves, and doubles back to Brian and
J.D. Sam and Brian drag J.D. rushing into
the library, seeing frost and ice descending
from the sky.
Meanwhile, Jack drags Jason with him and sees
the sky clearing up and realizes they’ll
get caught in the eye.
Knowing everything will freeze soon, he hurries
to find an open vent and throws Jason inside
before throwing himself in just as the ice
descends.
Sam, Brian, and J.D. make it into the library
in the nick of time but see the frost entering
the room.
They scramble to get the fire up, throwing
more books and wood in, desperately getting
the room to warm up.
Jack also struggles, knowing a fire is the
only thing that can save him and Jason.
Jason wakes up and sees ice all around him.
He sees Jack had managed to start a fire using
an open stove.
With the eye of the storm already passed,
Jack is determined to continue into Manhattan.
The two rest for a night, contemplate the
future of humanity.
Jack says humanity survived the last ice age,
but if careless, might not survive this one.
In the International Space Station, astronauts
confirm the storm is dissipating, seeing landmass
appear on the surface for the first time in
days.
Jack steps out of their tent and sees a massive
ship frozen in place.
They start their trek again, walking past
the statue of liberty.
The pair finally reach the city and see the
whole bay frozen and the city buried under
several meters of snow.
They find the library, barely visible out
of the snow, and find the fireplace where
Sam and the rest are sleeping with a burning
fire keeping them alive.
Jack and Sam are finally united.
In Mexico, the heads of state receive transmissions
from Jack, informing them of survivors.
The president then addresses the nation, telling
the country that survivors have been found
in New York despite tremendous adversity.
A vast search and rescue operation is underway
to retrieve anyone stranded in the northern
states.
Helicopters finally reach Jack and the group,
and they fly south.
As they pass through Manhattan, they see more
surviving pockets of populations on rooftops
awaiting rescue.
In p[the International Space Station, an astronaut
looks down upon the changing planet, remarking
the sky is the clearest he’s ever seen.